Let's flip over to the signup page
where we can make a form to allow people to sign on up.
So, we're gonna go into our sidebar here,
and I'm going to go into the pages
and make a new page called signup.js.
And you can actually just take all of the code
from one of your other pages, paste it in,
and then sort of rejig it to be what you want.
Good, we got our signup page working.
Now we're gonna go into our components
and make a Signup.js component.
And we'll scaffold out a react component, rcc.
And I'm gonna export that.
You're gonna need to import a couple things.
So, first we'll import the mutation component
from react-apollo.
We need to import the GQL from graphql-tag.
Import the form component from our styles directory,
and import the error message from our error directory.
Then, let's go down into here and return a Form tag.
Capital F form.
Inside of that we need a field set.
And inside of that we'll give ourselves an h2 that says,
Sign Up For An Account.
Then we'll go back into our signup page and import that.
And try to use one of those signup components.
Bit of an error here.
Build failed, duplicate declaration Signup.
Oh, so obviously you can't import it as signup
and make a component here.
So let's rename that to SignupPage.
And one more error, module not found,
cannot resolve styles error.
That's cause it's actually just ErrorMessage,
not in the styles directory.
Awesome, so I wanna have three of these side by side.
I want a sign up for an account, I want a sign in form,
and I want a reset your password form.
So, what we're gonna do is go back to our signup form,
and right now let's just duplicate
that signup three times over.
And then we're gonna make this div here into columns.
So we'll import style components
and then make a columns component.
Use a little bit of CSS grid.
And then we'll take this columns component
and replace it with that div.
Beautiful, now we have three columns showing up.
And what's nice about that, is if I remove one of them,
we just get two columns side by side.
If I were to add in a couple more,
at a certain point they're gonna break
that 300 pixel minimum and wrap onto the next line.
So, let's bring that back to three.
Alright, so what were trying to look for here is,
that we need a, very similar to our add an item,
we need a form that has a whole bunch of input tags.
And we're gonna save that and mirror to state.
So, let's go down here, and we need three.
We need one for email, one for name, and one for password.
I'm gonna try that, do this as long as I can.
So we'll have a label that is html for the email,
then inside of that we want to put the title of it,
so I think we can title.
You wanna uppercase the first letter.
Good, and then we need an input type of text
and we'll actually update that on each one.
The name of whatever it is that we have.
The placeholder of whatever it is that you want.
The value is going to be this.state. the name of it,
email, password, and name.
And then the onChange is going to be this.saveToState.
Looking good.
Little error here, that's fine.
Just because we haven't actually set our state yet.
Let's go back here and change this input to type="email",
and this input type="password".
Then we'll go up to our component here
and say that the state is going to be equal to
the name is nothing, the password is nothing,
and the email is nothing.
Looks like it's now working.
Oh, we also need a submit button.
So input, I will give a button type="submit".
And call it Sign Up.
Good, now if I try to type in these, it doesn't work.
And that's cause we don't,
haven't written that saveToState yet.
So what we can do here is we'll make that saveToState.
Very similar to how we did the other one,
just a little bit different cause
there's no numbers involved here.
Take the event.
We'll say this.setState, e.target.name,
it's going to be e.target.value.
Now let's open up our dev tools here.
Let's give it a good refresh, and I'm able to type into it.
Looks good.
If I check it out in my React dev tools.
Find the Signup component.
There's that one, you see my state is now being populated
as I change the values in there.
Awesome, now we need to actually write a query
to handle the mutation as well as wrap
this entire thing in a mutation so we can
expose the logic to submit it.
Let's scroll up top here and write our actual mutation.
So const SIGNUP_MUTATION = gql.
And, inside of that we will write
the mutation called SIGNUP_MUTATION.
That takes in the email, the name, and the password.
All of which will be strings.
That will then run our schema called signup,
which we will call it with email, which is the $email,
the name which is the $name,
and the password which is the $password.
And from that we'll turn the ID, the email,
and the name from that mutation.
Then, we want to go into our render and
make a mutation component.
That mutation takes the mutation option
which is going to be the SIGNUP_MUTATION,
and then the variables of that
that need to be passed along is just going to be state.
Whatever is in state; name, password and email.
Go inside this mutation, and write a little function here.
Curly brackets, arrow function.
That function gives us two things.
First the actual function to call, so signup.
And second we can get the error
and the loading states that we need to do
and we're destructuring that second argument
of the function into their own variables
called error and loading.
Then we'll take this closing curly bracket and this mutation
and I'm gonna put it all the way
at the bottom of the form tag.
And then I'm also going to return,
and put a parenthesis around the opening form tag,
and then a closing parenthesis behind that.
Give that a save, you see my Prettier turned it
into an implicit return and
in this case it's actually totally fine
because both the error and the loading state,
these are going to be part of the form tag itself.
So what were gonna do here is we'll go to our field set,
and just like we did before
the field set will take it disabled attribute,
that will be set to the loading bouillon,
and then it will also take in aria-busy attribute
which is going to be set to the loading.
And that's going to both disable the form
as well as show loading indicator
while things are happening.
Then we also want to just display
the error if there actually is an error.
So we can take our error component
that we inputted earlier,
and pass it the error.
And then if any errors come back from this mutation,
it's going to just display them to the top of the user,
but we still want to show them the labels and the inputs
so that they can fix that error, and resubmit it.
The last piece of the puzzle that we need here
is we actually need to handle the submit of this form.
So let's go into this form tag
and were add a couple things.
First, the method of your form needs to be post.
And that has nothing to do
with this actual sign up from happening,
but what actually happens is that if you leave that off,
let me show you what's gonna happen.
If I leave that off and I put in my password
as like something, like,
really cute, and hit Sign Up.
Oh, and the email address.
You'll see that, by default, form elements are get,
and if for some reason java script breaks on your page,
your form is just gonna fall back to regular form submission
and it's going to post it as, it's going to get it as a URL.
And that's a big problem, because you never ever
want to have peoples passwords stored in the URL bar.
Because that goes into their history,
that could possibly go into server logs, then your server.
It's gonna be a bit of an issue.
So, as sort of a nice little fall back,
either don't use a form tag
and just use a collection of inputs.
Or, set the method of the form to be post.
Next what we want to do is listen to the onSubmit event,
and when that happens we're gonna get the event,
and this is gonna be pretty simple here.
We simply just call it e.preventDefault
and then we run the signup function.
So give it a save here.
I'm gonna give it a fresh refresh
just to make sure there's no funny business going on here.
I'm gonna give it a wesbos+2@gmail.com.
And I'm gonna have it as dogs.
Click on Sign Up.
And you see that it temporarily
went to that loading state and came back.
And nothing seems to have happened
but I think it actually worked
because, and the way we can test that
is if we go to our console.
Load up this console, here.
Open up my Sick Fits.
Go to my users and you can see there
that's the second user that I have then created.
One thing we could do here is
actually capture the result of signup,
and if everything went okay we can clear the form.
So let's just say const res = await signup.
And we'll make this an async function.
And then let's just console log the response,
just to see what we've got there.
And then we'll clear out state.
So it's this.setState.
So, we'll try that again with wesbos+3.
Let's open up our console to see
what's coming back from that.
Sign Up and you see that the data comes back.
Signup and we have our signup there.
What I'm curious about is that,
what happens when I sign up
with an email address that is already existing.
Click on Sign Up.
You see that it says, shoot a unique constraint
would be violated on User.Details: Field name.
You could write some, you could intercept that
and write some better more user friendly one,
but we'll leave it as is there.
And you can see that because this
did not resolve properly, it actually threw an error.
We actually never did get to the setState
and nothing was console.log.
So you can simply just avoid it
and you don't even need the response in here.
Unless you wanted to make some sort of
custom success message to the user.
What were gonna do in the next video
is to be able to show the user's logged in state in here,
so once the user signs up here,
they'll automatically have that signed in up here refreshed.
So I'll see you in the next video.